content/_index.md, before:

+++

title = "Angela's PhD updates"
description = "Weekly meeting updates on Angela's PhD progress"
outputs = ["Reveal"]

+++

# Angela's PhD weekly meeting updates

[//]: # ([**Angela Cortecchia**]&#40;mailto:angela.cortecchia@unibo.it&#41;)

<div style="text-align: center; width: 100%;">

</div>

[//]: # (1. Task/obiettivi di breve termine, scadenze, priorità - e relativo progresso rispetto all'incontro precedente)
[//]: # (2. Obiettivi di medio termine, sia progetti che tool che conf che journal)
[//]: # (3. Obiettivi di lungo termine e visione futura - ivi inclusi obiettivi di ricerca)

---

# Week 01 -- 10 October 2025

### Tasks and short-term goals

1. Publish _Field VMC_ journal (deadline: undefined, priority: high, *waiting for editor to send further info*)
2. Study _CLF-CBF-QP_ for period abroad (deadline: ASAP, priority: high, *in progress*)
3. Implementation of _time replication_ in Collektive—necessary for self-stabilizing Gossip validation
   (deadline: undefined, priority: medium, *shared Clock done with tests*)
4. _Period abroad iter and proposal_ (deadline: undefined, priority: high, *call for application not published yet AFAIK*)

### Medium-term goals

1. _Collektive journal_: venue and contribute to define yet (priority: medium-high)
2. Paper on _Self-Stabilizing Gossip_, initial possible venues: SEAMS, others to define 
    (deadline: undefined, priority: medium, current status: draft paper done for PhD course—missing evaluation due to previous point [1.3])

### Long-term goals

1. Implementation of _aggregate processes_ in Collektive (related to [1.2])
2. Implementation of _signals and interrupts_ in Collektive (related to [1.2])
3. Implementation of _users and permissions_ in Collektive

---

## Period abroad infos/iter

- If I already know the period, I have to send the _request form to Bartolini and then to AFORM_.
- The Marco Polo program is a separate thing — first, I need authorization from the others.
- In Bartolini’s document, I have to _summarize in about 4 lines what I will do during the period abroad_, then she approves it.
- At that point, I have to _fill out the form_ available on the university intranet for PhD student mobility abroad and also the one that entitles me to the _50% scholarship increase_; once this is authorized, everything is set.
- When the Marco Polo call opens (**usually in December**), I need to _write a project proposal_ and complete the procedure on the website to apply for the call.
- When I come back, I have to write a _final project report_ to attach to the Marco Polo call documents, and then fill in the return form to be sent to AFORM.

---

# Week 2 -- 15 October 2025

### Tasks and short-term goals

1. Publish _Field VMC_ journal (deadline: undefined, priority: high, *waiting for editor to send further info*) \
    → Still no update from them, I checked the site every day too.
2. Study _CLF-CBF-QP_ for period abroad (deadline: ASAP, priority: high, *in progress*) \
    → still in progress, not bad, we have to plan the period with Ale this or next week.
3. Implementation of _time replication_ in Collektive—necessary for self-stabilizing Gossip validation
   (deadline: undefined, priority: medium, *shared Clock done with tests*) \
   → paused due to work on point [2]

### Medium-term goals

1. _Collektive journal_: venue and contribute to define yet (priority: medium-high) \
    → Possible venues: Journal of open research science, or JSS
2. Paper on _Self-Stabilizing Gossip_, initial possible venues: SEAMS, others to define 
    (deadline: undefined, priority: medium, current status: draft paper done for PhD course—missing evaluation due to previous point [1.3])
3. Possible work with GCiatto for ACSOS-2026 about "*distributed particle filter in AC/Collektive*" (priority: medium, I did not read the original paper yet)
4. About *ACSOS-2026*: possibility to showcase the NdR demo, or doing a tutorial about Collektive (if journal is out)
### Long-term goals

✨ Collective Operating Systems ✨

---

Next: 22 October 2025

Commit message:

add updates for 22nd october's meeting

content/_index.md, after:

+++

title = "Angela's PhD updates"
description = "Weekly meeting updates on Angela's PhD progress"
outputs = ["Reveal"]

+++

# Angela's PhD weekly meeting updates

[//]: # ([**Angela Cortecchia**]&#40;mailto:angela.cortecchia@unibo.it&#41;)

<div style="text-align: center; width: 100%;">

</div>

[//]: # (1. Task/obiettivi di breve termine, scadenze, priorità - e relativo progresso rispetto all'incontro precedente)
[//]: # (2. Obiettivi di medio termine, sia progetti che tool che conf che journal)
[//]: # (3. Obiettivi di lungo termine e visione futura - ivi inclusi obiettivi di ricerca)

---

# Week 01 -- 10 October 2025

### Tasks and short-term goals

1. Publish _Field VMC_ journal (deadline: undefined, priority: high, *waiting for editor to send further info*)
2. Study _CLF-CBF-QP_ for period abroad (deadline: ASAP, priority: high, *in progress*)
3. Implementation of _time replication_ in Collektive—necessary for self-stabilizing Gossip validation
   (deadline: undefined, priority: medium, *shared Clock done with tests*)
4. _Period abroad iter and proposal_ (deadline: undefined, priority: high, *call for application not published yet AFAIK*)

### Medium-term goals

1. _Collektive journal_: venue and contribute to define yet (priority: medium-high)
2. Paper on _Self-Stabilizing Gossip_, initial possible venues: SEAMS, others to define 
    (deadline: undefined, priority: medium, current status: draft paper done for PhD course—missing evaluation due to previous point [1.3])

### Long-term goals

1. Implementation of _aggregate processes_ in Collektive (related to [1.2])
2. Implementation of _signals and interrupts_ in Collektive (related to [1.2])
3. Implementation of _users and permissions_ in Collektive

---

## Period abroad infos/iter

- If I already know the period, I have to send the _request form to Bartolini and then to AFORM_.
- The Marco Polo program is a separate thing — first, I need authorization from the others.
- In Bartolini’s document, I have to _summarize in about 4 lines what I will do during the period abroad_, then she approves it.
- At that point, I have to _fill out the form_ available on the university intranet for PhD student mobility abroad and also the one that entitles me to the _50% scholarship increase_; once this is authorized, everything is set.
- When the Marco Polo call opens (**usually in December**), I need to _write a project proposal_ and complete the procedure on the website to apply for the call.
- When I come back, I have to write a _final project report_ to attach to the Marco Polo call documents, and then fill in the return form to be sent to AFORM.

---

# Week 2 -- 15 October 2025

### Tasks and short-term goals

1. Publish _Field VMC_ journal (deadline: undefined, priority: high, *waiting for editor to send further info*) \
    → Still no update from them, I checked the site every day too.
2. Study _CLF-CBF-QP_ for period abroad (deadline: ASAP, priority: high, *in progress*) \
    → still in progress, not bad, we have to plan the period with Ale this or next week.
3. Implementation of _time replication_ in Collektive—necessary for self-stabilizing Gossip validation
   (deadline: undefined, priority: medium, *shared Clock done with tests*) \
   → paused due to work on point [2]

### Medium-term goals

1. _Collektive journal_: venue and contribute to define yet (priority: medium-high) \
    → Possible venues: Journal of open research science, or JSS
2. Paper on _Self-Stabilizing Gossip_, initial possible venues: SEAMS, others to define 
    (deadline: undefined, priority: medium, current status: draft paper done for PhD course—missing evaluation due to previous point [1.3])
3. Possible work with GCiatto for ACSOS-2026 about "*distributed particle filter in AC/Collektive*" (priority: medium, I did not read the original paper yet)
4. About *ACSOS-2026*: possibility to showcase the NdR demo, or doing a tutorial about Collektive (if journal is out)
### Long-term goals

✨ Collective Operating Systems ✨

---

# Week 3 -- 22 October 2025

### Tasks and short-term goals
1. Publish _Field VMC_ journal (deadline: undefined, priority: high, *waiting for editor to send further info*) \
    → Still no update from them, I checked the site every day too and emailed them.
2. Study _CLF-CBF-QP_ for period abroad (deadline: ASAP, priority: high, *in progress*) \
    → at this point we should have the update from Ale thanks to the meeting we have just finished.
3. Implementation of _time replication_ in Collektive—necessary for self-stabilizing Gossip validation
   (deadline: undefined, priority: medium, *completed*) \
   → PR opened, checks are green, waiting for review.
   ⁉️ Should I start working on the evaluation?

### Medium-term goals
1. _Collektive journal_: (priority: medium-high) venue JSS, first flow draft has been written.
2. Paper on _Self-Stabilizing Gossip_, initial possible venues: SEAMS(2027..), others to define (SEWORLD?) 
    (deadline: undefined, priority: medium, current status: draft paper done for PhD course—missing evaluation due to previous point [1.3])
   → Waiting for Collektive journal to be finished to finalize this one.
3. ACSOS-2026: defined "*distributed particle filter in AC/Collektive*" with GCiatto and Davide.
   Spoke with Nico about the possibility to showcase the NdR demo, or doing a tutorial about Collektive (if journal is out).
4. Work for ACSOS-2026 as publicity co-chair.

### Long-term goals
✨ Collective Operating Systems ✨
    
---

Next: 31 October 2025
